What models of organization change are offered to have some points that would allow to control intermediate criteria, intermediate variables and track the direction of development,
and track the direction of change that is happening.
As in the models of growth of the organization, here were offered many models.
Again, about these models you can read in the literature that is applied to this course.
But we will stop today on those programs of change that have recommended their effectiveness, which were almost significant.
One of these models of change is the model of Backhard.
As for Backhard, it tried to find those characteristics of change that lead to success and justify the risk associated with changes.
From its point of view, in order to make changes successful, the program of these changes should initially formulate the goals of changes and determine the results that will be achieved in the future.
The goal should be determined only after the goals are formulated.
But setting goals is the first stage.
The next stage is the diagnosis of the state that is taking place.
It is necessary to assess the state that is now.
The actual availability of funds, the actual availability of opportunities, the actual availability of personnel, the actual business communication, business relations, business processes that exist.
And at the same time, it is necessary to assess the results that will be achieved.
What is the gap between what is and what should be.
When we make this assessment, we can assess how significant, radical, and fundamental the changes will be.
How easy or hard it will be to overcome the resistance of personnel, managers, to implement certain tasks.
We must assess the size of this gap between what is and what should be.
This diagnosis is necessary because I can set the most wonderful tasks, but at the same time, these tasks will be unrealistic for the achievement of this company at this time, in this part of the market.
Still, the change that is being made should be real, but it cannot be abstract.
The next stage, according to Bethardt, should be the development of a plan of action for the transition period.
We have already discussed that there should be changes.
We have made a program of changes, we have diagnosed the situation.
And then comes the transition period between what is and what we are starting to change.
Functioning, personnel, structure, division, we change plans, we change interactions, we change relationships.
At the same time, we must constantly react to feedback and react to the changes that are happening within the organization when these changes have started.
What is the resistance to these changes?
Is it not so high that people will support the changes and, accordingly, we will not be able to get the results that we need?
The transition period is a period of preparation of the organization personnel, of the organization employees for the changes, for the processes that will inevitably take place.
People are tasked with achieving some significant changes in their work.
A person always resists changes because he knows what he is doing, what will be changed, he does not know what results can be achieved.
In this regard, a certain transition period is needed, a period of pumping, we will talk about it in more detail.
A period of pumping, when a certain number of personnel of the organization will begin to move to a new functioning, a new way of action.
A certain number of adherents of new paradigms of behavior, of new paradigms of action must be formed.
In any company there are both innovators and adapters.
At this stage, at the stage of the transition period, it is necessary to bring out innovators, those people who are ready for changes, those people who are ready for restorization,
those people who are interested in changes, which are not satisfied with the already established routine, who are initiative, who give new proposals and who are happy to accept something new.
The next stage of changes is the development of strategies and action plans for managing the transition from the already existing state to what should be.
We have a team of innovators who are ready to make changes.
We already have someone to rely on, we have those who will pull the curtain of these changes.
And now it is necessary, relying on their abilities, their authority, their efforts, their knowledge, their experience, their leadership qualities, to formulate a program of further change.
So that from the transition period, when we are only trying to get adherence to changes, we can move directly to organizational development, which does not allow the return back.
When both employees and staff understand that there is no return to the old.
And whether you want it or not, we will function according to new rules, new plans, new patterns.
And either you adapt to them, or you have to leave the company.
As for the Becker model, it reflects the most difficult initial stage.
The stage of development, the stage of formation, the stage of preparation for organizational changes.
As we have already said, the attitude of people to changes is a rather significant task.
Because it is people, it is the human factor, who determine all the problems, all the difficulties, all the successes, all the speeds that will occur in the process of organizational change.
Many factors were considered, which assessed the influence of the human factor on the success of changes.
From this point of view, many authors, Birr, Beckford, Egan, Lippet, Solzat, Adjiris, Adziezis, considered many examples of successful changes.
Plus, again, a large number of changes that ended in failure.
And based on the analysis of these processes, they highlighted 6 steps, 6 points, 6 conditions for success of changes.
From their point of view, before we start hoping that the changes will lead to the desired result,
it is necessary to mobilize commitment to these changes through joint analysis of problems.
There are innovators in the company, there are adapters in the company.
There are people who understand that the way the company is developing now cannot further support its growth.
Some innovations are necessary.
These adapters and changes need to be mobilized and created a team of them, as we talked about Beckford's model.
And through joint analysis, brainstorming, we will develop those changes, plans, points, strategies that will occur.
Naturally, this strategy should fit into the guidelines that exist from the point of view of the company leaders,
from the point of view of those who are making these changes.
Because although all changes are made through the staff of the company,
the initiator of the changes, the person who is responsible for these changes,
is still the owner of the company, the one who is in charge of the company's acceptance.
The second condition for successful changes is the creation of a general vision of organizational processes.
This is what we want to achieve.
It is not enough to develop a general plan.
This plan should be divided among as many employees as possible,
so that they agree with the results, with the goals that will be achieved.
After this general vision is developed,
it is necessary to stimulate the acceptance of this new vision not only by innovators, but also by adapters.
In order for the adapters to understand that, yes, of course, we can use the recommended methods and approaches.
But nevertheless, there are new options that may be more successful.
And there are people, the same innovators, who are ready to take a risk and try.
Well, okay, let's see what they can do.
But the main thing here is not the obvious and absolute rejection of the changes,
but at least the acceptance of the agreement that there is a certain vision.
Well, okay, let them see. We will not interfere at least.
The next, fourth factor of success is that the activity of different units of existing companies is increasing.
We have repeatedly said that a company has its own structure,
and each of the units performs the necessary functions to achieve the results that this company produces.
At the same time, the activity of the unit must be increased without pressure from above, without authoritarian leadership.
It is important not to force these changes, but to allow each unit, each structure to move at its own pace.
If we start to put pressure, it will not lead to any good results.
If we start to support the positive growth that arises,
then a person begins to see that he is being counted on,
and that, perhaps, the results that we want to achieve will be interesting to him as well.
If we have reached this stage, then, accordingly, the organization is already pumped up.
Accordingly, there are already different factors for changing the process of organizational development.
And we can move on to the next condition.
This is the institutionalization of the changes that are taking place,
the creation of formal structures, formal systems according to a new schedule,
new goals, new tasks, institutionalization, legalization of new elements,
new structural components that are introduced into the company.
And, of course, it is necessary to control and correct the strategies of changes that are taking place at each stage,
depending on the resistance that we face,
depending on the requirements that the market presents to us.
Correction and control are an emphasis on feedback.
The company will never make changes in a vacuum,
and no one will wait for me to change something and release a new product.
We always make all the changes in a tough competitive struggle that is taking place.
These are the six factors that were highlighted.
Of course, you can add some other factors, you can argue with the presence of some of these six factors.
It is not so important for us now, because these are the factors that were taken from practical experience.
This is not a theoretical development, these are some academic concepts.
These are analysis and generalization of both the successful experience of changes carried out in different companies,
and, accordingly, the results of many failures.
But we constantly say that all companies, all organizations,
they exist together with other companies, they exist on the market,
and they have some internal driving forces, some internal braking forces,
internal structures of internal interactions.
In other words, there are both external and internal reasons for changes.
What are the external reasons for changes?
There are three main reasons.
First of all, these are, of course, economic reasons, which we have already talked about many times today.
We are on the market.
As for the market, there is a demand, there are some proposals that satisfy this demand.
There are consumers who invest in the acquisition of products and services that exist.
And, accordingly, depending on the purchasing demand, depending on the purchasing ability,
depending on the factors of economic growth, on the factors of economic development,
depending on the structure of the system, there are different consumer stereotypes.
There are different requests for certain products and services,
and all these requests should, first of all, be satisfied,
and, secondly, they should be worked on and existed one step ahead.
We should predict new requests and we should form these new requests.
These are economic reasons.
In addition, there are social reasons for changes.
First of all, this is, of course, politics.
Political requirements, political system, the coming to power of those or other leaders,
each of whom has its own economic team, its own economists,
its own ideas about how the economy should develop,
what priorities should be, what national projects there are,
what priorities exist in the development of the world economy,
where and in what aspects we have a competitive advantage compared to other countries,
what we can develop, what we can achieve.
Any new team of economists, having a certain education, a certain experience,
a certain achievement, depending on the existing policy, becomes dominant,
and we can either help the development of small business,
which, for example, in Russia has been striving to be realized since the early 90s,
but we all know that these results were far from always successful.
We can help the development of medium business, we can help the development of large business,
we can help the development of private business,
or create various state corporations that will be engaged in the implementation of the most successful developments
in terms of economic support of the state and political structures.
In addition to politics, demography is also of great importance.
Any economic company, any company, any economy is, first of all, a workplace.
It is, first of all, the purchasing power of the population.
It is, first of all, the ability to pay for certain services.
It is, first of all, certain claims and achievements that people have.
It is their preferences about what a successful life is, a car, a dacha, an apartment.
These ideas change, and they change depending on the number of the population,
depending on the age group of the population, depending on the gender composition of the population,
depending on the educational level of the population, depending on the income of the population,
10% of the richest, 10% of the poorest.
These are all the social factors that exist.
Again, if the population growth is declining, or if the population surplus is increasing,
the population surplus leads to a large increase in the elderly,
who need pension support.
A large number of young people lead to the need for education,
to the construction of an education system, to the creation of new jobs, and so on.
These are all the social factors that exist, and we cannot ignore them.
No company exists in a vacuum.
All economic, professional, labor and business actions exist in these economic and social conditions.
The third reason for the change is the change in technology.
The technological reason is that we live in a state of technological progress.
If in the 19th century there were no electric bulbs,
today we cannot imagine life without electricity,
without different electric stoves, electric heaters, electric kettles.
This is all technological progress.
In the end, the computers that surround us now, the information systems that we measure,
the same way of learning that we are now doing,
we are doing remote learning with the help of video equipment,
this is all that was not available 100 years ago.
Of course, these new technological innovations are a very powerful economic factor
that uses demand and forms demand.
The more computers there are, the more demand for software is.
The more communication between computers and the Internet,
the more problems arise with information exchange, electronic document processing, etc.
All these technological innovations need to be taken into account
because they give a certain offer, and this offer will either be in demand or not.
So, this is what concerns external reasons, economic, social, technological,
which reflect the changes that are taking place in business,
the changes that are taking place in the social sphere,
and the changes that are taking place in the scientific and technical sphere, in the scientific and technical potential.
In addition to external reasons, as we have repeatedly noted today,
there are also internal reasons for changes.
Internal factors of transformation are related to these internal reasons for changes.
These are procedural changes, decisions, communication disruptions, interaction disruptions.
All that we have discussed, for example, about the interaction between different units
in the company where this or that development system is carried out.
On the other hand, in addition to procedural changes, there are also behavioral problems, behavioral factors,
which are related, for example, to the lack of competence of employees,
to the high level of flow of cards, to the little attention paid to the staff,
to the insufficiently effective management, to various styles of management.
All this needs to be taken into account, because the changes, as we have repeatedly mentioned,
and according to the models that we have considered,
they significantly depend on the relationships within the company.
Do I associate my life with this company, or do I consider my further development,
my work environment with other companies?
Am I interested in taking part in the changes within my company,
or am I more interested in finding another company
that will not bring me unnecessary headaches with these or other organizational changes?
There will be a lot of internal reasons, because all these reasons are related to human motivation,
human activity, human cognitive abilities, human achievements,
human commitments, human ambitions.
And all this needs to be taken into account in order not to face internal reluctance,
internal sabotage to change, because change is already a complex process.
And if I constantly interfere with this, or deliberately worsen the results,
then, of course, with all my will, I will not be able to change the effect.
When we talk about organizational changes, about the events in the organization,
then it is necessary to remember some fundamental ideas of these changes.
Again, what concerns the situation we are going to discuss now,
it is the result of generalizing practical experience.
So, as for the changes, it is necessary to understand that this is a natural phenomenon.
Everything that exists in nature, everything that exists in the economy,
everything that exists in the surrounding world, it is constantly changing.
There are no unchanging things.
There is always one or another evolutionary line, evolutionary scheme.
Changes are made continuously and gradually.
Changes are a constant process.
There cannot be a situation that today we have changes,
and then we live a month calmly, and then we make changes.
Changes are a continuous process.
If there are no changes, it is stagnation, it is stagnation with all the consequences.
At the same time, changes are a progressive process,
because every new innovation is based on the innovations that were before.
And, accordingly, progressiveness is a necessary criterion for change
if we want to get a successful result.
The goal of change is not to make changes for the sake of change,
but to help growth and survival, the survival of the organization.
The market conditions are constantly changing, as we have discussed,
and we must constantly keep these changes in mind.
This is where the conditions of our growth are laid.
The results of changes depend on adaptation to changing conditions.
We cannot make changes against the will of people working in the organization.
We make functional changes, we make changes in actions
that affect the actions of specific people, specific employees, specific staff.
And therefore, we must adapt all the people working.
If a person is not adapted to these changes, he will not be able to, he will not want to work.
He will be the balance to be rid of.
Changes are assumed to be their acceptance.
Adaptation is needed for this.
As for changes, it is necessary to keep in mind
that there are global changes that affect the whole organization as such,
and there are private changes that can affect the improvement of the work of a particular unit,
the change of functional duties, the change of plans, the change of contracts.
These are changes that do not require the change of the existing structure, the existing circumstances.
These are improvements of the stages, the factors of development that occur.
That is why changes are a natural process,
a natural process of the organization's functioning, a natural process of the organization's existence.
Understanding this fact is a condition that resistance to these changes will be overcome
and we will achieve the desired result for us.
We have been talking about changes since the very beginning,
how they occur, what models exist.
But at the same time, changes themselves are different.
The classification of these changes was proposed,
which allows us to divide the processes that occur within these changes,
the methods that are used when we carry out one or another organizational change,
the consequences that may occur, the results of the strategy that are manifested.
As for the classification of changes, there are many different schemes.
We will again start from the scheme that is in practice,
from the scheme that describes the process of changes occurring in commercial organizations
and which leads to the desired results in business.
The first type of change is the so-called revolutionary change.
This type of change has nothing to do with bloody changes.
Revolutionary change is a qualitatively different functioning of an organization.
It is a change in financial activity, it is a merger of organizations,
absorption of organizations, change of shareholders of organizations.
That is, all the processes that occur are completely changed.
It is not an expansion, addition of what has already been.
It is a radical change of management, a radical change of people, personnel,
a radical change of structure.
In fact, it is the creation of a qualitatively new, qualitatively excellent organization.
As for revolutionary changes, they capture the whole organization from bottom to top
and these changes occur in a leap.
They are either there or not.
The second type of change is evolutionary change.
Evolutionary change is a kind of continuous process.
When we achieve some results that prove their effectiveness,
we consolidate these results and move on to the next result.
We constantly increase the sales plan, we introduce new products and services into the market.
But at the same time, the structure of interaction, the structure of functioning remains unchanged.
There are no revolutionary changes in competence,
no new form-grading, no changes in key efficiency indicators, etc.
We have a certain goal of getting profit, getting dividends.
To achieve this goal, to get better and better results,
we constantly make some innovations, consolidate them and move on.
This process is gradual, without any leaps, as we have discussed earlier.
The next type of change is strategic change.
Strategic changes lead to serious organizational transformations.
But again, they are similar to revolutionary changes,
but at the same time, they are changes within the existing structure.
For example, the creation of a new department.
There is a sales department, and within it, a sales department for legal entities is created.
This is because the number of contracts and agreements has increased recently,
not with the physical entities, but with legal entities.
Therefore, the strategic plans of the organization may change.
When we, in addition to the physical entities, start interacting with legal entities.
This is a strategic change.
It does not require revolutionary changes, because we will work on the old principles,
we will work with the old products.
We simply change the market niche in which we work and create a new department.
This department naturally requires organizational changes.
In addition to strategic changes, there are also operational or tactical changes.
They are associated with the introduction of new systems, procedures, technologies
that influence the development of an organizational project,
that influence the promotion of a product.
Operational changes are a 7-minute response to the feedback we receive.
For operational changes, revolutionary leaps are not necessary.
Strategic planning changes are not necessary.
For example, we introduce a new product for sale.
And we see that this product is more popular among young people.
Accordingly, we start changing advertising, PR, in terms of changing the target audience.
These are operational changes.
We have not changed the product.
We have increased the sphere of influence to the age category,
which is more interesting.
This classification allows us to evaluate the results that will be obtained,
as well as the approaches, methods and models of change that we will talk about now.
However, before moving on to the models of change,
it is necessary to say a few words about the process of change.
All the changes that we are talking about, revolutionary, evolutionary, strategic, operational.
With all the abundance of changes, with all the variety of companies,
with all the problems that arise in the market,
only three types of mechanisms for changing can be distinguished.
First of all, these are innovations.
We create a new product, we offer a new service, we change the functionality, we introduce something new.
Not what has already been, but what has not yet been recommended.
Any innovation is a risk, as we said.
Because innovation can lead to a breakthrough, it can lead to unpaid costs.
Secondly, innovation is a planned process.
Because we make strategic plans, we create structures, we select personnel,
we write a business plan that concerns the investment that we will make.
Innovation is always planned, we can somehow track the results that are obtained.
Another mechanism of flow is spontaneous processes.
Spontaneous processes are connected with the fact that we suddenly get some new result.
And then we want to see how successful this result will be from the point of view of the business process.
Some kind of addition to our product, some kind of change in the payment and service scheme.
This is a spontaneous process.
Some manager can do it, and he can do it.
Then we analyze the sales plan, analyze the success of his work,
and we can conclude that what he did within his competence,
within his plan, will be useful if other managers will do it.
There was no special program for introducing a new process.
There was no planned change in advance.
It turned out spontaneously, but its results were valuable, and we are now starting to implement this process.
If it works, we will implement it. If it doesn't work, we won't implement it.
These spontaneous processes are less important than innovations,
because they don't require substantial investments.
But the benefit that we can get from them can be very significant.
And finally, the third mechanism of process change is natural selection.
Natural selection is the understanding that a company produces several products.
A company imports several services to the market, and all these products and services are in demand.
However, there are constant changes, and the demand for some products decreases, and the demand for others increases.
Accordingly, those products and services that are not in demand are removed from production,
and those products that have been recommended are increased in their number.
And then we can make plans for innovation of these products in demand, and adjust the demand for the offer.
This mechanism is called natural selection, because we react to market demands.
What is profitable now, we demand from you.
What is currently in deficit, no matter why, we throw it out to the market at the appropriate price,
at the appropriate advertising company.
When this demand decreases again, we start to throw out another product.
Natural selection is a reaction to those demands, to those market demands that occur and that we implement.
What is the role of natural selection in the development of the company?
When we talked about changes, it was repeatedly emphasized that the level of changes is determined by the way in which these changes are implemented.
This problem was considered by Tuerle.
And as for Tuerle, he proposed to consider five approaches to the management of changes.
Five approaches to how these changes are implemented.
As for these approaches, they are significantly close to the style of management, but there are also nuances.
The first approach that Tuerle considers is a directive or authoritarian one.
The management decided that there should be changes, and accordingly, these changes will occur.
Regardless of whether you like it or not. If you don't like it, leave. But we will work in a new way.
As for this approach, we can achieve rapid innovations, but it does not take into account all the psychological difficulties of a person.
It does not take into account the social and psychological climate in which a person is.
The next approach is a negotiation approach.
Or, as we consider it in the Gruner model, it is the growth of the organization through redistribution of powers, through redistribution of responsibility.
It is admitted that the processes that took place do not lead to the desired result.
It is a kind of contractual agreement that in order for the organization to function normally,
changes are necessary, and these changes are brought to the understanding of the staff.
At the same time, a compromise is reached between what is already there and what will be.
As for the negotiation process, it is designed for cooperative interaction,
when the staff realizes the need for changes, even if the staff does not want them.
Nevertheless, the staff understands and accepts their need and starts to implement these changes.
The next approach is the so-called heart-to-heart.
This approach is associated with the popular concept of emotional leadership.
I can give orders, I can explain, but only if you want changes, if you want other innovations,
if you are interested in the development of your organization, if you are interested in the development of yourself in this organization,
then you yourself should be motivated to implement changes, to form a common vision of these changes.
This approach is based on subjective qualities, on the internal messages of the staff.
This approach has the right to exist in organizations with a good corporate culture,
with a good team, where people really work for a long time.
The next approach for TURL is an analytical approach.
This approach is based on the fact that diagnostics is made on the basis of this diagnostics,
goals are set that need to be achieved, intermediate results are assessed and the next stages are planned.
In fact, this approach is based on control.
At each stage, I control the achievement of goals, I maintain feedback,
I am satisfied with the results of the changes, and I am satisfied with the results of the changes.
In fact, these are programmed changes that are made according to the previously developed plan.
Moreover, diagnostics is carried out at each stage.
What have we achieved? What changes? Are there any improvements? What have we lost?
The fifth approach to changes is the so-called approach to changes based on actions.
In this case, a problem is identified, its solution is formulated, and then we go to its solution by means of tests and errors.
This is the most laborious approach, which can lead to major problems,
but unfortunately, this is the approach that is used most often.
Because, if we talk about Russian reality, it is the hope for Russian avoidance.
So, this is the method of trial and error.
And here something will come out, and here it will not.
And here it is quite difficult to assess any results.
These are the five approaches that CERL highlights.
And these five approaches, in fact, summarize all the variety of methods of changes,
which we talked about earlier, all these models, all the stages that we considered.
When we talk about changes, it is still of great importance to ask the question,
how much is the organization ready for changes?
We are talking about diagnostics, we are talking about planning.
And this is an analysis of the situation as it is, and the situation that we want to achieve.
How much is the organization ready, at the moment, in the conditions as they are,
for the need for changes.
Again, as for the problem of readiness for changes, this is a separate issue,
about which a lot of literature is written.
But since today we are getting acquainted with the common ideas, common plans,
common contexts of approaches to changes,
we will again focus on the practically recommended model of Beckhart,
proposed in 1989.
And as for this model, it is a generalization of those practical successes
and analysis of those failures that were made in practice in the second half of the 20th century.
As for readiness for changes, Beckhart sets several criteria.
First of all, it is the readiness of the top team, the readiness of the top managers
to make changes.
If the top managers are not ready to make changes, the changes will not be made,
because the staff is already responsible for the changes.
And if the managers who manage the company also do not want to make any changes,
then they will have no one to start with, no matter what tasks, no matter what goals they set.
The next criterion is that, as we have already said,
it is necessary to clearly formulate the vision of what the organization should become as a result of the changes.
We do not make changes to the convenience of the manager.
We do not make changes for the sake of changes.
We have a specific goal that is produced by strategic planning.
As for this goal, we must go to it.
If the goal is clearly formulated, then you can clearly understand the steps of achievement,
micro-breaks, or jumps that we will make and which will lead to the desired result.
Another criterion is that it is necessary to create conditions that do not allow the return to the past.
We talked about the situation of defrosting, freezing.
This is what we are talking about in this point.
As it was before, we will not act anymore.
And, accordingly, you should not return to this, you should not think about it.
The next criterion is that the organization has innovators and adapters.
There are not many innovators, but there are many adapters.
Accordingly, there is a certain critical mass of workers who are ready to support the changes.
And there is a certain critical mass of workers who will prevent the changes.
This should be taken into account and supported by those innovators who are there,
because it is these innovators who will be followed by others in the organization of changes in the company,
which we talked about earlier.
The next important criterion is planning for the long-term and medium-term perspective.
Changes are always a strategy.
Tactical and personal goals are a very important stage.
But all these goals that are adjusted to the final goal,
they are implemented depending on the tasks, on the approaches that exist before the organization.
And tactical goals can be changed.
The strategic goal does not change, as we have already emphasized,
for which I make changes, if, of course, I do not hope for 8.
The next important criterion is that you need to clearly report to yourself
that there will always be a negative reaction to any change.
But at the same time, you must respect the opponents.
You will work with these people.
These people are already working for you.
These people help you achieve certain results.
Of course, you can change everyone,
but making changes with a completely changed staff is a much more difficult task,
because you should not forget that changes are a long process.
Nevertheless, the company does not stop its activity in the process of changes.
We still produce something.
These are the laws of the market.
Therefore, you need to know the negative reaction,
and respect the opponents,
because if you have a lot of opponents,
this is only a sign that the preparatory work has not been carried out enough.
And this means that the process of changes is not prepared.
The next criterion is that until the need for changes is realized,
as we have already said, changes will not be made.
We may not accept them.
We may not like them.
But if there is awareness, then the organization is pumped up
and, accordingly, there is an intention to make these changes.
This awareness is a direct way to the conviction that changes should happen.
Because if there are no changes,
the company will not have the ability to function further.
The company is doomed to bankruptcy,
the company is doomed to absorption,
and this means the loss of my jobs.
I will have to look for another job.
At the same time, Becker emphasizes that all changes should use existing resources.
The company's resources are not taken for granted.
Everything that has been developed using the old methods,
everything that has been developed now,
everything that has been diagnosed in the situation as it is,
these are the resources,
and these are the only resources that I can use for further changes.
These resources give me the means to make changes.
These resources give me the prerequisites for changes.
These resources give me the strategic goals and strategic tasks
that I can achieve in the process of changes.
At the same time, it is necessary to remember
that when changes take place,
it is necessary to work extensively.
It is necessary to support information flows
that reflect positive results,
that reflect the real conditions
that exist in the company at the moment.
Accordingly, these are the results,
this is the information support that will help
to form in the consciousness of employees,
in the consciousness of the staff
the fact of the need for changes,
the pumping of staff and subsequent switching of staff
to these changes.
This is what concerns the criteria
in which the results we have discussed today are largely generalized.
When we talk about classification of changes,
when we talk about the mechanisms of these changes,
we still start from the stages of organizational development.
The stages of organizational development
are closely related to the growth of organizational changes.
In fact, they are four main stages
that implement the organizational changes that occur.
We have already talked about these consequences.
Let's summarize and combine all these stages.
When a certain change occurs,
the first thing we face is a denial.
Denial that something needs to be changed in our organization.
There are usual methods of work,
and we start from them
and make a lot of arguments that those schemes,
methods, products, services are so good
that why should we look for something else?
The best is the enemy of the good.
And we deny the need to change something.
But, as we said,
the organizational changes are always initiated from above,
and regardless of our desire, they will be implemented.
Then comes the second stage, the denial.
This stage is that we will change something,
but we will still strive to work according to the old way.
We will strive to make as few changes as possible.
At the same time, we recognize that some changes are really necessary.
But these changes are necessary not in my department's work,
but in the work of the neighboring department.
We work in accounting, finance, lawyers.
But as for my department, my organization,
everything is fine here.
If they changed their attitude,
then we would achieve better results.
We realized that changes will still occur.
But we want to pay the minimum price.
Let others change,
but we will look and work according to the old way.
The third stage is that it is very important
to make the staff accept the need for changes.
And not only this need,
but also the approach that is offered to implement these changes.
This is very important in order to avoid sabotage,
to avoid attempts to devalue the changes in the company.
The third stage is the implementation stage.
The implementation stage is when the staff starts working in a new way.
When changes are accepted, when changes have occurred.
And when changes become something that may or may not be.
When they become necessary, significant,
necessary in the internal part of the operation.
And if I want to work in this company,
if I want to cope with my functional duties,
I have to work in a new way.
Now I can neither deny nor avoid.
Now I have to perform the actions as it is now accepted in the company.
As it happened according to the changes that exist.
This stage, as we have already said, can have two outcomes.
One outcome is when I perform everything as it should be.
But at the same time, all these innovations
are so difficult for a person
that he cannot cope with them.
If there are many people like this,
it is a collapse of organizational development, organizational change.
We did not get what we wanted.
We were left out of the picture.
And the other outcome is when the company
moves to a new level of development,
conquers new markets.
This is what we have been discussing with you,
discussing the Danck model, the Greiner model.
In fact, this is the stage of acceptance of changes.
Now we cannot imagine any other way of working.
This is the stage of passing the point of return.
We cannot return to the old routine methods of work.
Now all these changes are perceived as self-evident.
And then comes the next stage, the fourth stage,
the stage of maintaining changes.
This is a very important stage,
because the task here should be
to make these changes perceived
not only as self-evident,
but also as something that can change.
We adopted some new forms of behavior.
We adopted some new products.
We adopted new systems of interaction, new plans.
And this means that we are going through
a further process of development.
By the way, this is the stage
when adapters are the first to be implemented.
Adapters of changes are those people
who accept the existing processes
and start polishing them, start working on them.
This is the stage when adapters are very important,
because there are already some achievements here.
And now these achievements need to be worked out,
they need to be applied to the conditions
that exist in the organization.
This is the stage of organizational development
that usually stands out.
And all the models that we are going to look at
are based on these stages.
Again, when we talk about models of processes of change,
the goal of these models is purely practical.
What methods can be used,
what actions can be taken
in order to optimize the changes that are taking place.
The first model that gained wide popularity
was proposed by Kurt Lewin in the middle of the last century.
And this model, again, concerns three main processes.
All these models are simple,
because their main task is to have practical consequences,
to give practical results, to summarize and analyze practical results,
and not to create some beautiful theoretical schemes.
Lewin, doing research on the behavior of a person
and his interaction with other people in the business process,
came to the conclusion that when changes occur in an organization,
three stages can be highlighted.
The first stage is the defrosting stage.
Lewin uses the usual words, the usual vocabulary,
because he believes that if I create recommendations
for changes, then these recommendations should be understandable
to people who do not have a special psychological education.
Kurt Lewin was a famous psychologist.
So, what about defrosting?
It is a way of informing employees,
informing staff about the changes that will occur.
This is the defrosting of the situation.
We have some problems, we have some difficulties,
we have a stagnation in work, and this does not suit us.
But, first of all, we must accept and recognize that these difficulties exist,
and, secondly, accept and recognize the program of changes
that will be proposed to eliminate the difficulties that arise.
As for the defrosting stage,
the information should concern all people who will be affected by the changes,
that is, in fact, all staff.
And, what is very important, we have already talked about this in the Greiner model,
it is about the fact that it is necessary to give enough time
for people to realize the need for change,
to realize the need for the old, successful,
familiar, recommended way of working to stop bringing the desired result.
The next stage is the second stage, the stage of changes.
In this situation, it is about the fact that the changes themselves occur.
We change the staff schedule, we change the economic indicators,
we change the products, we change the relations, we change the interaction,
we change the business planning.
That is, there is a process of changes that must be accompanied by constant monitoring,
monitoring of what is happening, monitoring of how my changes correspond to external requirements,
how my changes in the organization are perceived by the staff of the organization.
In fact, this is a control of feedback.
And, finally, the third stage is defrosting.
Defrosting of those new achievements, those innovations that are happening in the organization.
What we talked about earlier, about the support stage,
it reflects the defrosting of the olivine.
We have achieved new results.
These results have proven their success.
These results were accepted by the staff.
These results were realized by the staff.
And, accordingly, we will be interested in developing the staff's commitment to these results.
This model was proposed in the middle of the last century, as I said,
and it turned out to be very successful precisely due to its simplicity.
It does not give specific ways and steps, how and what to do.
Other models were proposed for this.
Some of them we have already considered, others we will consider a little later.
But as for the olivine model, it gave a methodology.
A methodology of how we can make changes in the staff
taking into account the subjective features of a person,
taking into account the tasks that a person has with his acceptance or rejection.
30 years of using this model led to the fact that it was improved, corrected by Shine.
And it still has all the same elements, defrosting and freezing.
But here practical ways have appeared, some operational methods of implementation of actions at each stage.
As for defrosting, Shine believes that at this stage it is necessary to realize
that everything is not going as it should, not as it should be.
The staff must realize that they do not get the desired result.
This should lead to a sense of anxiety.
If we do not get the desired result,
will it not lead to the fact that our competitors will suppress us?
Will it not lead to the fact that we will have to back down?
This sense of anxiety, from Shine's point of view,
is a very important stimulus to make changes.
I worry about the consequences for myself, I do not want negative consequences for myself.
That is why in order to avoid these negative consequences,
I will be ready to make changes, I will have to make them.
But not because someone demands it from me,
but because I am interested in further work in the company.
But at the same time, any living person wants to get a certain guarantee of his safety.
In the sense that after the changes made, he will not be reduced, he will not be fired.
At least he will not get less than he did before.
If you give these guarantees to a person,
then he will be more open to changes, he will be less afraid of them.
Even if something does not work out,
and we all remember that what concerns a person,
he always chooses to use the usual methods
rather than something new that has no consequences for him.
But I have a guarantee that in any case it will not get worse for me.
And so I can take a risk.
Although I can not lose, but I can acquire.
As for the next stage,
unlike Levin, who is concerned with changes,
Schein calls the next stage the stage of movement.
This is the same thing.
But the fact of movement reflects the fact that changes have begun in the organization.
The case has moved from the dead point.
And the fitting of new models of functioning,
new models of behavior begins,
which is very important for the analysis of the inner moving factor, for changes.
I am ready to try on a new model.
And this is the beginning, this is the pumping up of a new way of behavior.
At the same time, when this movement occurs,
there is an active analysis of the external and internal environment.
I look at how other people perceive changes.
I look at their reaction.
I look and decide which group I should join.
I am looking for new information that will justify the need for these changes
and that these changes will not lead to any negative consequences for me.
The third stage is the freezing stage,
which by Schein means the integration of new vision,
new behavior, new reactions, new functioning into the existing relationships within the collective,
into the minds and souls of workers, into the minds and souls of employees.
At this stage, the freezing of new forms of behavior occurs.
These forms have proven themselves, these forms have justified themselves.
And, accordingly, if I use these forms in my work, I will get the desired result.
And, of course, this result will lead to the growth of the company indicators in which I work.
Ronald Lipet proposed another model of change,
which is based on the Levin model and on the Schein model,
which is based on the stages of defrosting, changing and freezing.
But at the same time, this model significantly reflects more of the staff's experiences,
the experiences that arise among the employees when the process of change occurs.
If Levin and Schein are a kind of a constatation of stages
plus a constatation of the events that occur at each of these stages,
Lipet's model is a list of the stages that are implemented within the collective.
The first stage is shock.
Shock in the sense that what was successful before,
what I could do, how I functioned, turns out to be ineffective.
There are certain or other problems before the company,
and, accordingly, if I do not change, then it is possible that the company will go bankrupt,
it is possible that I will lose my job.
This is a state of shock when a person is in a hopeless situation.
What was usual and what I can do is not suitable,
I need to learn something, the result is unknown.
We are talking about organizational change.
It is difficult to calculate when and how the desired result will be achieved.
The next stage that follows the shock is retreat.
I have not yet accepted the need for change,
but at the same time I am ready to retreat from the usual norms and behaviors,
from the usual functioning.
In this case, the readiness to look for something new is formed.
This is a very important element at the stage of organizational change,
which we discussed earlier when we looked at the models of these changes.
A person is ready to retreat, but he has not yet retreated.
He is ready to retreat, and now the employee is fixing
how much he can accept the changes that are offered to him,
how capable he will be of implementing these changes.
The third stage is the stage of recognition.
When an employee already recognizes that the methods he has learned,
the changes that have occurred are really effective,
that he is able to implement these methods and, accordingly,
successfully implement them,
it means that he is no longer threatened by any negative consequences of the changes.
The next stage is adaptation.
I have adopted new forms of action, they suit me,
now I have to adapt to them.
I have to develop new skills, a new system of document circulation,
a new system of relations with customers, a new system of interaction with clients.
I have to get used to it, so that it becomes my automatism.
After all this happens, the final stage comes,
the stage of the change that has actually occurred.
This is what we talked about, for example,
in the same model of the stage of organizational development.
This is support.
The change has occurred, the change will not fall back.
The change has now become a habit, a way of interaction.
This has become a new point, which will then follow the new change.
And here, this whole model returns to its original part.
As for the model of the epithet, this is a more psychological model,
because it includes the psychological characteristics of a person,
his psychological features, his psychological qualities.
And basically, it is oriented and works
from the point of view of the social-psychological climate
that exists in the organization,
experiencing these or other processes of organizational changes.
When changes occur, consultants play a very important role.
Consultants who consult the situation in the company.
Because if it is about changes, usually,
these changes are carried out by a special team
that has experience in making changes,
which has experience in overcoming the difficulties
that arise in these changes.
And the same Ronald Lippet developed a seven-step consultation model.
If his five-phase model reflects the features
that arise within the staff of the organization experiencing changes,
this is what concerns the consultation model.
It reflects the interaction of the consultant and the staff of the organization,
the managers of the organization,
in which the system of changes is carried out.
As for the consultation model,
first of all, it is, of course, an introduction.
The consultant must enter the organization
and start using trust in it.
First, he, of course, uses caution, rejection,
because this is a person who came to change something,
and people do not like changes and are afraid of them.
In this regard, the stage of the introduction
is precisely the establishment of trust relations.
We must get rid of the prejudice of the consultant.
At the next stage, it is necessary to establish
a client-to-client relationship.
That is, a relationship with the management,
a relationship with the employees,
a relationship with the management.
I was given a task, and this task is aimed
at accompanying the process of change,
to help overcome any difficulties that arise in this process,
and, accordingly, I must work according to certain rules.
The main goal for a consultant is to achieve the end result,
for which he receives the funds.
But in order to achieve this,
it is necessary to establish certain business relations,
business communication with all participants in these changes.
The next stage, as we have already discussed, is the diagnosis.
The diagnosis of what is,
the diagnosis of what should be,
and, accordingly, the determination of the difference
between what is and what should be.
Is not a deep gap between what is desirable and what is real too high?
Perhaps, in order to achieve the desired result,
gradual steps are required,
and to avoid too serious shock state,
requirements are required,
this is just the same diagnosis that we have discussed in the Bekhart model.
The next stage, which we must constantly support when changes occur,
is, of course, the maintenance of feedback.
Feedback with managers, feedback with managers,
feedback with staff,
in order to constantly see what attitude to changes exists,
what difficulties arise.
Constant feedback, both internal environment,
and assessment of external changes.
Although consultants are significantly concerned about internal interaction,
because this is a person who carries out internal monitoring of organizational changes,
the need of which is dictated by external conditions.
The next stage, after I have established a trust relationship,
after the diagnosis is carried out,
after the feedback is carried out,
it is necessary to develop a project of change.
We have discussed that any change, before it should begin,
if it is designed to be successful,
it must correspond to a certain strategic plan.
The consultant must develop this plan,
based on all the data he received,
based on the relations,
based on the communication he has,
based on the expectations that are formed in the organization.
Only after all this preparatory work is done,
the very beginning of changes is carried out.
Intervention.
I start doing certain actions,
I start guiding,
guiding with new regulations,
new orders,
new functions.
I start the process of changes.
If you know, the first points are preparation for changes,
what concerns intervention,
it is the actual implementation of these changes.
With all the difficulties we talked about,
with all the processes and stages that were in Levin and O'Shine,
which we considered earlier.
The final stage of changes is the assessment of what has happened,
and adaptation.
Adaptation of the results,
freezing of these results,
maintaining of these results.
This is the Leviton model,
which is based on its five-phase model,
from the point of view of external consultation
of the changes that will occur in the organization.
For more information,
you can read the literature that is offered to you.
As you understand,
I have just outlined this model.
Here it is necessary to consider its practical aspects
and specific practical examples.
As for the changes,
again, the Levin and O'Shine models
and the Leviton model,
they are some of the possible models.
At the end of the last century,
the analysis of the practical results of organizational changes
allowed to formulate and show
the practical significance of two more models.
The first model is the so-called transition period model.
The transition period model
that we have already mentioned many times,
means the presence of some breakthroughs.
That is, we are gradually demonstrating
that the current state has many negative conditions,
and these negative conditions need to be corrected.
Correcting these conditions involves
changing the usual forms of activity.
In this situation, we do not register,
do not regulate the program of changes immediately,
we do not make it a leap.
As you remember, we talked about the gradual process of change.
We make micro-breakthroughs, micro-changes,
because a small change
is relatively easy to make.
As we make these small breakthroughs,
we gradually move from the current state
to the desired state.
The transition period is important not only for the organization,
but also for the set of necessary changes,
necessary preferences, necessary actions
that we will use to reach a new level of quality,
the level of organizational change that will occur.
If you look at the slide,
you will see that there is a so-called big gap
between the current state and the future state.
This gap is not achieved by a leap
in a short period of time,
but by a gradual step,
which we use to reach a new state,
a new position.
If we make these gradual breakthroughs,
we cannot return to the old state,
because we have gradually developed the staff,
new behavior, new actions,
which are useful and which become familiar to me.
I accept them and adapt to them.
However, the organization may not always have time
to implement this step of gradual improvement
and to use the transition period model.
The thing is that even these small breakthroughs
can meet the resistance of the staff
and lead to sabotage, to the refusal of changes,
nostalgia and the need to return
to the already recommended behavior.
Therefore, along with the transition period model,
there is also a gradual improvement model.
As for this model,
it is mainly used if the management,
the owners, the people who determine the policy of the company
themselves do not have a clear idea
of the desired model of the future functioning of the organization.
This situation, unfortunately,
is very often encountered,
especially in Russia,
simply because our economic realities
change so often,
that it is difficult to adapt to the rules of the game.
These rules are constantly changing.
And, accordingly, it is not because I do not know
what I want to get in the end,
I just do not know what external economic conditions will be,
what external social conditions will exist,
but I know that if I want to exist,
if I want to develop, if I want to function,
I must be ready for these changes,
because I reflect the feedback
between the market demand and my proposals.
So, if there is no clear model,
then here you can go through gradual growth,
which allows you to make changes step by step.
I made some small change,
I look, it turned out to be useful or not.
If this change turned out to be useful,
I fix it, I adapt it, I fix it,
I freeze it, I support it and go on.
If this change did not lead to the desired result,
or this change turned out to be excessive,
then you can give up on it and return to the situation
that was before it.
Since the change was insignificant,
a return is possible here.
The advantage of this model,
the gradual growth model,
is that it significantly reflects the domestic realities,
where you often have to move from one side to the other.
If we really made changes,
it is difficult to give up on it,
people are used to it.
If it is a small change,
it is relatively easy to give up on it,
simply because it has a short duration,
simply because it is not principle and not significant.
But from these inconsistencies,
the desired changes are gradually formed.
In fact, the gradual growth model
is a simplified version of the transition period model.
The only difference is that in the transition period model
I have the current state and the desired state.
I clearly know what I want to achieve.
The gradual growth model works in the situation of uncertainty,
characteristic of the Russian specification.
When I find it difficult to say
what specific result I want to achieve.
And in fact, this is a situation of action
of a gradual trial of errors.
Positive result, negative result.
Should I develop this result or should I give up on it?
The last model I would like to consider
from the point of view of control of changes
is the so-called EZEPO model,
EZEPO is the abbreviation of the letters that are included in it.
The English translation of this is EZEPO.
As for this model,
it is one of the new models
that has been developed in the early 21st century.
This model is, in fact,
a reflection of the main changes
that occur in an organization under changes.
The functioning of changes begins
with the creation of a vision.
This is what you can see on the slide.
A vision is created.
Again, a vision of what we want to achieve is created.
A vision of what an organization should do is created.
A vision of what place this organization will occupy
is created.
And accordingly, a goal is set,
a strategic plan to which we should strive.
After this vision is created,
the activation stage begins.
Management is activated,
employees are activated,
consultants appear
who begin to implement this model,
to achieve an understanding of this model by the staff,
to achieve that people are interested in implementing this model.
As for the model we are considering now,
it is, in fact, a generalization of many of the results we have discussed.
This is a generalization of the Levin model,
this is a generalization of the Shine model,
this is a generalization of the Lipet model,
this is a generalization and maintenance
of the organizational development stages,
which we have discussed.
The EZE model is another attempt
of practical generalization and graphical representation
of how we can make changes.
There is nothing fundamentally new in it compared to other models,
this model is a functional unity of previously considered models.
This model is very interesting in practice,
very applicable in practice
and has practical significance.
The next stage after activation is support.
Support for the changes that have occurred.
Support for the processes that exist,
new functions, new divisions,
new documents of turnover, etc.
Support for the changes achieved,
motivation to continue these changes.
After support, the implementation stage comes.
If at the level of support,
this is still a significant number of innovators,
then now the implementation involves
changing the behavior of a new function
within the framework of the entire organization.
This is the situation when even adapters
must make these changes
and adapt these changes to their everyday actions.
The next stage, and in principle,
usually this stage is implied,
but in this model it is specifically mentioned,
is the provision of conditions for change.
We take care of creating a new corporate culture,
we take care of supporting and encouraging those
who successfully implement new forms of work,
new forms of interaction.
Accordingly, there are sanctions against those
who sabotage or relate to the changes
that occur in the organization without proper piety,
without proper desire.
And this whole model ends with recognition
and approval of the changes.
In fact, in this situation,
it is about the fact that the changes have already occurred,
the changes have already been fixed,
the adaptation to them has been made,
and these changes have become a new way of working,
a new way of functioning,
which allowed to fix and achieve those goals
for which these changes occurred.
Accordingly, this model is very useful
because it clearly allows to understand
the existing connections,
the existing relationships
between different stages of changes
and the changes clearly demonstrate
all these difficulties, all these stages,
all these processes that occur
during organizational development
and organizational change.
Let's summarize our meeting today.
Our interaction was dedicated to the analysis
of the diversity, the various forms,
the various results of organizational changes.
No company can exist without changing
if this company wants to develop further
and wants to take a place in the market.
We have discussed what organizational changes are,
we have considered the causes of these changes,
we have analyzed the various models of organization growth,
we have discussed what the life cycle of an organization is
and how different forms of changes
manifest in this life cycle of an organization,
we have analyzed the influence of the human factor
on the organization of changes,
we have talked about adapters, innovators,
we have considered different models of changes,
the Bechert model,
we have considered the Lipit model,
the Levin model, the Shine model,
we have talked about the transition period model,
the model of gradual increase of changes,
we have analyzed the IZER model
as a generalization of those changes
that occur in an organization.
In conclusion, we have analyzed
all the models that exist.
Our goal today was to show the whole range of problems
that exist.
And of course, we have only named the main ideas,
the main working practical models
that are implemented from the point of view of organizational changes.
Of course, we have approached the management model of changes
proposed by Kotor, which is the most popular today.
But as for this model, due to its popularity,
it will be dedicated to a separate topic.
As for the list of literature proposed to you,
there you can find a more detailed description
of the different models that interested you,
because our goal today was to get acquainted with these models,
analyze their weak and strong sides.
Thank you for your attention.
Goodbye.